## Complete exercise

### NORMAL level

#### Task 1

Imagine you have a website that has a `Quick search` button. This button gets all characters of level higher than 45 (`level` column), of `dwarf` race (`race` column) from the `character` table and outputs the result on the page. Provide the SQL string that will be needed to do this.

### Answer:
SELECT * FROM character WHERE level > 45 AND race = 'dwarf';


#### Task 2

Go to http://www.w3schools.com/sql/default.asp and click on `Try it yourself` button. Then you will be able to run your SQL queries after clicking on `Run SQL` button. Click on `Customers` table on the right. In this task you will work with it.

1. Select customers who live in London 
2. Get `CustomerName` and `ContactName` of customers wih `Address` starting with `23`
3. Get the table of unique cities.
4. Select customers with `PostalCode` starting with `0`
5. Select customers NOT from USA
6. Select customers from France sorted by `ContactName` in descending order
7. Select 10 customers from Germany and USA

### Answer:
1. SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE City = "London" ;
2. SELECT CustomerName, ContactName FROM Customers WHERE Address Like '23%';
3. SELECT DISTINCT City FROM Customers;
4. SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE PostalCode Like '0%';
5. SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE Country <> 'USA';
6. SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE Country = 'France' ORDER BY ContactName DESC;
7. SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE Country = 'Germany' OR Country = 'USA' LIMIT 10;


#### Task 3

Go to http://www.w3schools.com/sql/default.asp and click on `Try it yourself` button. Then you will be able to run your SQL queries after clicking on `Run SQL` button. Click on `Products` table on the right. In this task you will work with it.

1. Select products that start with `M` letter
2. Get `Unit` column for a `Steeleye Stout` product
3. Get `ProductName` column of all products with the price higher than 22
4. Select products with weight value of 500 or 250 g
5. Select products with `Unit` containing `bottles` word
6. Select products with `SupplierId` that equals to 7. Sort the results by `Price` in descending order.

### Answer:
1. SELECT * FROM Products WHERE ProductName LIKE 'M%';
2. SELECT Units FROM Products WHERE ProductName = 'Steeleye Stout';
3. SELECT ProductName FROM Products WHERE Price > 22;
4. SELECT * FROM Products WHERE Unit = '200 g' OR Unit = '500 g';
5. SELECT * FROM Products WHERE Unit LIKE '%bottles%';
6. SELECT * FROM Products WHERE SupplierId = 7 ORDER BY Price DESC;


#### Task 4

Go to http://www.w3schools.com/sql/default.asp and click on `Try it yourself` button. Then you will be able to run your SQL queries after clicking on `Run SQL` button. Click on `Employees` table on the right. In this task you will work with it.

1. Get `FirstName`, `LastName`, and `Notes` of employee with `Leverling` last name
2. Select all employees born after `1959-12-31`
3. Get `BirthDate` of employees with `FirstName` starting with `A`
4. Get `FIrstName`, `LastName`, and `BirthDate` of employees sorted by `BirthDate` in ascending order

### Answer:
1. SELECT FirstName, LastName, Notes FROM Employees WHERE LastName = 'Leverling';
2. SELECT * FROM Employees WHERE BirthDate > '1959-12-31';
3. SELECT BirthDate FROM Employees WHERE FirstName LIKE 'A%';
4. SELECT FirstName, LastName, BirthDate FROM Employees ORDER BY BirthDate ASC;
